# Spinwheel-SyncVr-UnityAssessment

Instructions on ow to install the project:
Click on the code button and choose the download zip option at the bottom of the drop-down. Once the zip file has been downloaded, extract it and go into the folder. Provided in the file once it is unzipped are two folders. “Spinwheel EXE” is the built application of the Assessment, and “Spinwheel-SyncVR-UnityAssessment-UP” is the Unity file. To open the Unity file, open the Unity Hub, click on the drop-down next to the open button and then choose the add project from disk option and then select the unity file.


Design choices:
For my project, I wanted to make something distracting to the patient and a game that takes my passion for creating immersive experiences by making it interactive. Spinwheel was heavily inspired by the mobile game aesthetic, with specific inspiration drawn from a simple but effective game called Bubblegum Hero. I enjoyed how simple Bubblegum Hero was in its gameplay and how satisfying and addictive the gameplay loop was. I strived for this simple but powerful design philosophy with Spinwheel. Spinwheel is a game with two modes. One mode is a standard mini-game mode, where you press the space bar to spin the pinwheel and make it grow. However, if you leave the pinwheel alone for too long, it will begin to shrink, and if your points go below zero, you have to try again. By fighting against the shrinking pinwheel, the patient will be distracted by trying to keep the pinwheel spinning and ultimately win. The other mode I included in this game is called free play. Free play mode is where the user can blow into the microphone of a headset to spin the virtual pinwheel. By physically blowing, It creates a merging between the physical and the digital worlds that evoke a sense of awe in the patient. This mode is accomplished by taking a value input from one's microphone and translating that value into the pinwheel rotation. Transforming this mode to VR in the future would make this experience even more immersive and wouldn't be difficult to implement. As for the UI design and overall look of the game, all sprites and the pinwheel model were created by myself using Photoshop and Maya. The background environment for the game is made using Unity's terrain system and free-to-use foliage models from the Unity store. For the overall feel of this game, I wanted it to be semi-realistic in its gameplay and environment but with a fun and stylized UI system and font that is very colorful and eye-catching. There were some other elements that I would want to implement if I had more time. For example, I would enjoy adding sound effects for the growing and shrinking phases of the pinwheel. I also would like to add different particle effects to the pinwheel when you reach a specific point value, similar to how the mobile game Doodle Jump shows how well you're doing by changing the environment as you climb up. Of course, I want to add more levels with more challenges for the player, and some wacky objects could spin out of the pinwheel.



